* Title: User Authentication
* Slug: authentication

================================================================

To be able to use the activeCollab API, you need to authenticate yourself to the system first. You can do that by using your <{term}>API key<{/term}>. This key is available on the <{option}>API Subscriptions<{/option}> page of your activeCollab user profile:

<{image name="api_url.png"}>

When creating such request, the API key must be passed as a <{code}>auth_api_token<{/code}> <{term}>GET<{/term}> variable. The sample request URL looks like this:

<{code inline=false}>http://site.com/activecollab/api.php?path_info=info&auth_api_token=1-spUJiaAK5kQqU87OnB4nHZUuYWRlzjDP4cY5CxXN<{/code}>

<{sub slug='obtain-api-key'}>Obtain API Key Programmatically<{/sub}>

activeCollab API does not require from users to copy and paste their API keys to get authenticated. Instead, they can provide their regular user credential and have application that uses API get API key in the background. This API key will aslo be stored and available for further usage, without the need to input your credentials again.

To subscribe, application needs to send a POST request to activeCollab's api.php file, that has following variables:

1. <{code}>api_subscription[email]<{/code}> - Email address of a user who gets authenticated;
2. <{code}>api_subscription[password]<{/code}> - Users password;
3. <{code}>api_subscription[client_name]<{/code}> - Name of the application that is requesting subscription;
4. <{code}>api_subscription[client_vendor]<{/code}> - Name of the organization who developed the application that's subscribing to activeCollab.

When successfully subscribed, system will return API key in plain text. For example, this request:

<{code inline=false}>curl --data "api_subscription[email]=user@company.com&api_subscription[password]=**********&api_subscription[client_name]=SubscriptionTest&api_subscription[client_vendor]=A51" http://site.com/activecollab/api.php<{/code}>

will return API key like this:

<{code inline=false}>API key: 1-rtYM2JqeuZHkAuHcN4MXyiqyd1PW3kJjEwVu7azp<{/code}>

If not, following error codes will appear:

* HTTP error 500 - Operation Failed. Multiple reasons are possible, and they are explained later on.
* HTTP error 403 - Forbidden. This response is thrown when user is successfully authenticated, but don't have permissions to use API (Administrator has disabled it in their System Role setup).
* HTTP error 400 - Bad Request. Unknown error.

System also returns following error codes as body of the response:

* <{code}>0<{/code}> - Unknown error
* <{code}>1<{/code}> - Client details not set
* <{code}>2<{/code}> - Unknown user
* <{code}>3<{/code}> - Invalid Password
* <{code}>4<{/code}> - Not allowed for given User and their System Role

Here is an example response, with error code:

<{code inline=false}>Error Code: 3<{/code}>