*Title: Working with Projects
*Slug: projects

================================================================

Commands listed in this article are used for managing your projects via the activeCollab API.

<{sub slug="about"}>About Projects<{/sub}>

This is the list of available fields that you can use:

- <{code}>name (string)<{/code}> - Project name,
- <{code}>overview (text)<{/code}> - Project overview,
- <{code}>category_id (integer)<{/code}> - ID of the Project Category,
- <{code}>company_id (integer)<{/code}> - ID of the Client company that you are working for on this project,
- <{code}>leader_id (integer)<{/code}> - ID of the user who is the <{term}>Project Leader<{/term}>,
- <{code}>status (string)<{/code}> - Project status. This field is available only for the edit-status action and has two possible values: active and completed,
- <{code}>currency_id (integer)<{/code}> - ID of the currency that was used to define budget value. If you do not select anything, the default currency will be displayed. You can set a default currency in <{option}>Administrator > General > Currencies<{/option}>,
- <{code}>budget (float)<{/code}> - Value of a <{term}>Project Budget<{/term}>,
- <{code}>label_id (integer)<{/code}> - ID of the <{term}>Project Label<{/term}>.

You can find the list of additional resources used by projects that you can use in the <{page name="categories"}>article about Categories<{/page}>.

For some extra commands please check the <{page name="complete"}>Completion status related commands<{/page}> article and <{page name="state"}>Object state related commands<{/page}> article.

<{sub slug="projects"}>projects<{/sub}>

This command displays all, non-archived projects, that this User has access to. In case that a User is <{term}>Administrator<{/term}>, or <{term}>Project Manager<{/term}>, system will return all non-archived projects and properly populate <{code}>is_member<{/code}> flag value (when 0, Administrator and Project Manager can see and manage the project, but they are not directly involved with it).

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><projects>
  <project>
    <id>1</id>
    <name>...</name>
     ...
    <is_member>1</is_member>
  </project>
  ...
</projects><{/code}>

<{sub slug="archive"}>projects/archive<{/sub}>

In case you wish to display all archived projects that this user has access to, use this command. If a User is an <{term}>Administrator<{/term}>, or a <{term}>Project Manager<{/term}>, system will return all archived projects and properly populate <{code}>is_member<{/code}> flag value (when 0, Administrator and Project Manager can see and manage the project, but they are not directly involved with it).

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><projects>
  <project>
    <id>1</id>
    <name>...</name>
     ...
    <is_member>1</is_member>
  </project>
  ...
</projects><{/code}>

<{sub slug="add-project"}>projects/add<{/sub}>

Use this command to create a new Project.

Method: <{term}>POST<{/term}>

Additionally you can include a <{code}>project_template_id<{/code}> variable, which should be a valid project ID and <{code}>first_milestone_starts_on<{/code}> which should be a valid date. If these variables are present, the new project will be created by using an existing project (determined by the ID that has been passed) as a template and Milestones will be properly rescheduled so the first one starts on the given date.

Example request:

<{code inline=false}>project[name]=API test project
project[company_id]=3
project[leader_id]=1
submitted=submitted<{/code}>

Response:

<{code highlight=xml}><project>
  <id>4</id>
  <name>
    <![CDATA[API test project]]>
  </name>
    ... 
</project><{/code}>

<{sub slug="projects-id"}>projects/:project_id<{/sub}>

With this command you can shows properties of the specific Project. This request can also return:

- brief information about the <{term}>Project Leader<{/term}>,
- information about the <{term}>Client<{/term}> that this project is for,
- permissions that any logged in user has in each of the Project areas (Tasks, Files, Milestones, etc).

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><project>
  <id>4</id>
  <name>
    <![CDATA[API test project]]>
  </name>
     ...
  <logged_user_permissions>
    <role> ... </role>
    <permissions>
      <milestone>3</milestone>
      <discussion>3</discussion>
      ...
    </permissions>
  </logged_user_permissions>
</project><{/code}>

Quite useful detail are data returned in <{code}>logged_user_permissions<{/code}> block. First element is the name of the <{term}>Project Role<{/term}> that given user has in the Project. Second element is the list of permissions that given user has in various project sections (such as Tasks, Milestones, Files, etc). Possible values that you can get are:

- **0** - User can't access this section.
- **1** - User can access this section, but they can't manipulate data in it.
- **2** - User can access this section and create new records,
- **3** - User can access this section, create new and manage all existing records.

<{sub slug="projects-id-edit"}>projects/:project_id/edit<{/sub}>

Update project properties by using this command.

Method: <{term}>POST<{/term}>

Request example:

<{code inline=false}>project[name]=API test project changed with edit
project[overview]=Testing edit via API
submitted=submitted<{/code}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><project>
  <id>4</id>
  <name>
    <![CDATA[API test project changed with edit]]>
  </name>
    ...
</project><{/code}>

<{sub slug="projects-id-hourly-rates}>"}>projects/:project_id/hourly-rates<{/sub}>

This command lists available <{term}>Job Types<{/term}>, their default <{term}>Hourly Rates<{/term}> as well as hourly Rates applied to the selected project.

<{note title="Compatibility Note"}>This API command was introduced in activeCollab 3.2.13 and it is not available in earlier versions of the software!<{/note}>

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><job_types>
  <job_type>
    <id>1</id>
    <name><![CDATA[Programming]]></name>
    <default_hourly_rate>100</default_hourly_rate>
    <is_default>1</is_default>
    <project_hourly_rate>100</project_hourly_rate>
  </job_type>
  ...
</job_types><{/code}>

<{sub slug="templates"}>projects/templates<{/sub}>

<{note title="Compatibility Note"}>This command has been added in activeCollab 4.1.0 and it is not available in earlier versions.<{/note}>

This command list all available <{term}>Project Templates<{/term}> in activeCollab.

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><project_templates>
  <project_template>
    <id>1</id>
    <name><![CDATA[Website Redeisgn]]></name>
    <scheduled_items>25</scheduled_items>
    <permalink…</permalink>
  </project_template>
  ...
</project_templates><{/code}>