*Title: Working with Files
*Slug: files

================================================================

Each project has a separate section, so called <{term}>Files<{/term}>, where files can be uploaded, discussed and file versions tracked. Commands described on the following arctile will allow you to manage all these files.

<{note title="Compatibility Note"}>Files related API commands were introduced with activeCollab 3.3.9 and they are not available in the older releases.<{/note}>

<{sub slug="about"}>About Files<{/sub}>

Files related fields that you can set via API are:

- <{code}>name (string)<{/code}> - File name. This field is optional when you are uploading a new file (if omitted, system will use the original file name of the uploaded file),
- <{code}>body (text)<{/code}> - File description,
- <{code}>visibility (integer)<{/code}> - Object visibility. 0 stands for private, and 1 for normal visibility,
- <{code}>milestone_id (integer)<{/code}> - ID of the parent Milestone,
- <{code}>category_id (integer)<{/code}> - Category ID.

This is the list of resources used by Files:

- <{page name="categories"}>Categories<{/page}>,
- <{page name="attachments"}>Attachments<{/page}>,
- <{page name="comments"}>Comments<{/page}>,
- <{page name="reminders"}>Reminders<{/page}>.

Extra commands that you can use are available here:

- <{page name="subscription"}>Subscription related commands<{/page}>,
- <{page name="state"}>Object state related commands<{/page}>.

<{sub slug="files"}>projects/:project_id/files/files<{/sub}>

This command lists all the file type files from a given project.

<{note title="FIles attached to other Object"}>Please note that files attached to other project elements (like Tasks, comments, etc.) are not listed here, only files uploaded via project's Files tab or via API commands are listed in this article.<{/note}>

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><files>
  <file>
    <id>1</id>
    <name>
      <![CDATA[image.png]]>
    </name>
     ...
  </file>
</files><{/code}>

<{sub slug="upload-files"}>projects/:project_id/files/files/upload<{/sub}>

This command will enable you to upload a single file from your computer to activeCollab. Make sure that you encode your request as <{code}>multipart/form-data<{/code}>.

Method: <{term}>POST<{/term}>

Request example:

<{code inline=false}>file[body]=File description
submitted=submitted<{/code}>

<{note title="About multipart/form-data request"}>You will find more info on how to send the <{code}>multipart/form-data<{/code}> request and add file to it in documentation, or a library of a tool that you are using to make the API request.<{/note}>

Response:

<{code highlight=xml}><file>
  <id>1</id>
  <name>
    <![CDATA[image.png]]>
  </name>
  ...
</file><{/code}>

<{sub slug="archive"}>projects/:project_id/files/archive<{/sub}>

Display all archived Files from this project by using this command.

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><file>
  <file>
    <id>12</id>
    <name>
      <![CDATA[File example]]>
    </name>
     ...
  </file>
</file><{/code}>

<{sub slug="file-id"}>projects/:project_id/files/files/:file_id<{/sub}>

Displays file details.

Method: <{term}>GET<{/term}>

Example response:

<{code highlight=xml}><file>
  <id>1</id>
  <name>
    <![CDATA[image.png]]>
  </name>
  ...
</file><{/code}>

<{sub slug="edit-file"}>projects/:project_id/files/files/:file_id/edit<{/sub}>

USe this command to update file details.

Method: <{term}>POST<{/term}>

Example request:

<{code inline=false}>file[name]=new-image-name.png
submitted=submitted<{/code}>

Response:

<{code highlight=xml}><file>
  <id>1</id>
  <name>
    <![CDATA[new-image-name.png]]>
  </name>
   ...
</file><{/code}>