*Title: Module Definition and Initialisation
*Slug: module-definition

================================================================

Now that we have our module defined, let's create a couple of files that are needed for activeCollab to recognise it and load it. First thing to do is to set module image. For this we need to create a directory <{path}>/path/to/activecollab/custom/modules/my_reports/assets/default/images<{/path}> and place our image in it. It should be a 32x32 pixel PNG icon and it should be called module.png.

<{sub slug="initialization-file"}>Initialization File (init.php)<{/sub}>

What needs to be done next is to write module initialization file. To do that, create an empty <{code}>init.php<{/code}> file inside the <{path}>/path/to/activecollab/custom/modules/my_reports<{/path}> directory. 

Use the following code to it:

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  /**
   * My Reports module initialisation file
   */
  
  const MY_REPORTS_MODULE = 'my_reports';
  const MY_REPORTS_MODULE_PATH = __DIR__;<{/code}>


<{sub slug="signature"}>Signature File (signature.php)<{/sub}>

Since the release of version 3.3, activeCollab requires that every module has a valid signature file. To define one, please create <{code}>signature.php<{/code}> file in your <{path}>/modules/the-module-you-made<{/path}> folder. 

This file needs to be in the this format:

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  /**
   * Return module version signature
   */
  return 'qw13XUlqFb2b^0R8)u<DH3nx*L6DY3>C06K7]D3M';<{/code}>

<{note title="How Signatures Work?"}>Purpose of signature file is to let activeCollab know that a **module is compatible with the particular version of the system**. If signature file is missing, or it returns invalid value, system will simply skip your module and it will not load it at all.

Each major branch of activeCollab (marked with the first two numbers in version number, eg. 1.0, 3.2, 5.6 etc) will have a different signature value. **When a new branch is released, you will need to update the module signature file and review your module**. By using this method, we wish to help you keep your modules up to date, reviewed and compatible with the latest activeCollab branch.

Currently known signature values are:

- activeCollab 3.3 - 'TcFnJCm<jPNihLiGGzizrMUzh6:%6sEx79U2<#Vz' (without quotes)
- activeCollab 4.0 - 'qw13XUlqFb2b^0R8)u<DH3nx*L6DY3>C06K7]D3M' (without quotes)
- activeCollab 4.1 - '2D4xeWJpEI7p6uqf6nTNLHYweculoPe7133n8fH6' (without quotes)
- activeCollab 4.2 - '2D4xeWJpEI7p6uqf6nTNLHYweculoPe7133n8fH6' (without quotes)<{/note}>

<{sub slug="class"}>Module Definition Class<{/sub}>

Next step is to create a module definiton class. Convention is that module definition class is named the same way as the module directory is, but in camel notation, plus word "Module". Here are some examples:

- <{code}>reports<{/code}> will be <{code}>ReportsModule<{/code}>
- <{code}>sales_force_integration<{/code}> will be <{code}>SalesForceIntegrationModule<{/code}>
- <{code}>ldap_provider<{/code}> will be <{code}>LdapProviderModule<{/code}>

Save the module definition class to a file that has the same name as the definition class and add ".class.php" extension to it. In our case, we'll add <{path}>MyReportsModule.class.php<{/path}> to <{path}>/path/to/activecollab/custom/modules/my_reports<{/path}> folder.

The code, in <{path}>MyReportsModule.class.php<{/path}> will look something like this:

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  /**
   * My Reports module definition class
   */
  class MyReportsModule extends AngieModule{
  
      /**
       * Short module name (should be the same as module directory name)
       *
       * @var string
       */
      protected $name = 'my_reports';

      /**
       * Module version
       *
       * @var string
       */  
      protected $version = '1.0';

      /**
       * Return module name (displayed in activeCollab administration panel)
       *
       * @return string
       */
      function getDisplayName() {
        return lang('My Reports');
      }
  
      /**
       * Return module description (displayed in activeCollab administration panel)
       *
       * @return string
       */
      function getDescription() {
        return lang('An example module');
      }

      /**
       * List events that this module listens to and define event handlers
       */
      function defineHandlers() {
        // Place where you can define your event handlers
      }

      /**
       * List routes defined and used by this module
       */
      function defineRoutes() {
        // Place where you can define your routes
      }
  
  }<{/code}>

<{sub slug="installation"}>Install the Module<{/sub}>

Now that we have our module icon, initialization and signature files, and module definition class, our new module will be available for installation. Use the <{option}>Refresh<{/option}> from the Admin are and you should see our module in the <{option}>Modules<{/option}> list:

<{image name="modules.png"}>

<{note title="Folder Structure"}>After you have completed all the steps described in this article this is how the <{path}>/modules<{/path}> folder structure should look like:

<{image name="modules_folder.png"}><{/note}>