*Title: Creating a Home Screen Widget
*Slug: homescreen-widget

================================================================

Following our original idea, we want our My Reports module to define a new Home Screen widget that users can add to their <{page name="home-screen" book="getting-started"}>Home Screens<{/page}>. To make it happen, we'll need to do the following:

- Add Home Screen widget definition class,
- Define event handler that enables activeCollab to discover our widget. 

<{sub slug="homescreen-class"}>Creating a Home Screen Class<{/sub}>

Lets start by creating a Home Screen definition class. This class is part of activeCollab model, so we'll out it in <{path}>path/to/activecollab/custom/modules/my_reports/models/homescreen_widgets<{/path}> folder of our module. 

We'll call it <{code}>MyReportsHomeScreenWidget<{/code}> and we will extend <{code}>HomescreenWidget<{/code}> class with this specific file. The HomescreeWidget class is a part of activeCollab and it provides plumbing that all home screen widgets are using.

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  /**
   * My reports home screen widget
   */
  class MyReportsHomeScreenWidget extends HomescreenWidget {
  
      /**
       * Return home screen widget name (also widget label on home screen)
       *
       * @return string
       */
      function getName() {
          return lang('Example Widget');
      }

      /**
       * Return name of the widget group
       *
       * This value will determine where your widget will be displayed in Add a Widget dialog. 
       * It can be one of the existing groups, or a new group
       *
       * @return string
       */  
      function getGroupName() {
          return lang('Examples');
      }
  
      /**
       * Return widget description (displayed when you select this widget in Add a Widget dialog)
       *
       * @return string
       */
      function getDescription() {
          return lang('Example how to make a homescreen widget');
      }

      /**
       * Render widget title
       *
       * @return string
       */
      function renderTitle(IUser $user, $widget_id, $column_wrapper_class = NULL) {
          return parent::renderTitle($user, $widget_id, $column_wrapper_class); // Inherit default title renderer (uses widget name)
      }

      /**
       * Render widget body
       *
       * @return string
       */  
      function renderBody(IUser $user, $widget_id, $column_wrapper_class = NULL) {
          return 'Welcome to my reports widget';
      }

  }<{/code}>

The code above is pretty much self-explanatory. What we can point out is that <{code}>renderBody()<{/code}> usually uses templates, but for now returning a string is enough.

In order for activeCollab to recognise and load our new class we have to register it, and we are going to do that by putting following code inside init.php (we have created this file in the <{page name="module-definition"}>step #1<{/page}> in previous article) of our module.:

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  /**
   * My Reports module initialisation file
   */
  
  const MY_REPORTS_MODULE = 'my_reports';
  const MY_REPORTS_MODULE_PATH = __DIR__;

  AngieApplication::setForAutoload(array(
    'MyReportsHomeScreenWidget' => MY_REPORTS_MODULE_PATH.'/models/homescreen_widgets/MyReportsHomeScreenWidget.class.php'
  ));<{/code}>

<{note title="Autoloading Classes"}><{code}>AngieApplication::setForAutoload()<{/code}> will registers our new class and map it with a file where it is defined. This way, we do not need to include the file itself - activeCollab will do it for us automatically when the class is needed.<{/note}>

<{sub slug="handeling-events"}>Handling Events<{/sub}>

In order for activeCollab to be able to discover our new Home Screen widget, we will need to listen to the event that is thrown by activeCollab when it wants to learn which widgets modules to publish. Name of this event is <{code}>defineHandlers<{/code}> and we will add following line to <{code}>defineHandlers()<{/code}> method of our module definition class (MyReportsModule.class.php):

<{code highlight=php}>function defineHandlers() {
  EventsManager::listen('on_homescreen_widget_types', 'on_homescreen_widget_types');
}<{/code}>

Two parameters which are important here are:

- name of the event that we are listening,
- name of the file where our event handler is defined (in most cases we'll use same name as the event).

In order to write event handler that will be executed when this event is triggered, we'll create <{code}>on_homescreen_widget_types.php<{/code}> file and place it in <{path}>/path/to/activecollab/custom/modules/my_reports/handlers<{/path}> directory. Content of this file is as follows:

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  /**
   * on_homescreen_widget_types event handler
   */
  
  /**
   * Handle on_homescreen_widget_types event
   *
   * @param array $types
   * @param IUser $user
   */
  function my_reports_handle_on_homescreen_widget_types(&$types, IUser &$user) {
    $types[] = new MyReportsHomeScreenWidget();
  }<{/code}>

This small bit of code will add our widget to the list of known widget types when activeCollab requests it (when it prepares list of available widgets for <{term}>Add a Widget<{/term}> dialog).

<{sub slug="finishing"}>Finishing<{/sub}>

When you are done, go to your home screen and add your newly created widget to the page:

<{image name="new_widget.png"}>

<{note title="Folder Structure"}>If you have followed all the steps from this artcile your <{path}>/modules<{/path}> folder structure will look like this:

<{image name="modules_folder_latter.png"}><{/note}>