*Title: Defining a New Report
*Slug: new-report

================================================================

After we have <{page name="module-definition"}>defined our new Module<{/page}> and make it to create a <{page name="homescreen-widget"}>new Home Screen widget<{/page}>, we will tech you how to add a new section into the existing one in activeCollab. 

Following our example, we will add our report into the <{term}>Reports & Filters<{/term}> section. This report will list all active projects on which currently logged user is working on. It will also display amount of time and expenses tracked for these projects.

To accomplish that, we will need to:

- Create a report page that displays the data that we want to see;
- Connect that page with Reports & Filters section.

<{sub slug="routes-controllers-views"}>Routes, Controllers and Views<{/sub}>

If you wish to add a new page to activeCollab, you will need to use following elements:

- <{term}>Routes<{/term}> which will define URL that maps with a particular controller and action (which eventually render a page). Route definitions can be simple, with specified path, or complex with variables, and they define how particular URL maps with appropriate controller and controller action,
- <{term}>Controller<{/term}> is an object that contains action that will handle requested page,
- <{term}>Action<{/term}> is a function within a controller that's used for handling requested page,
- <{term}>View<{/term}> is a <a href="http://www.smarty.net/">Smarty</a> template used to display data in HTML format.

First step would be to define a route. In order to do that just put the following line in <{code}>defineRoutes<{/code}> method of your module class somewhere in our module definition class (in MyReportsModule.class.php):

<{code highlight=php}>function defineRoutes() {
  Router::map('my_projects_report', 'reports/my-projects', array('controller' => 'my_reports', 'action' => 'index'));
}<{/code}>

We have just created new route with the name <{code}>my_projects_report<{/code}> which will appear under <{path}>wwww.myactivecollab.com/reports/my-projects<{/path}>. When that URL is visited, <{code}>my_reports<{/code}> controller will be raised and system will call its index action from. In order to handle that, we need to create a MyReportsController.class.php with index action. We will place the controller file in <{path}>/path/to/activecollab/custom/modules/my_reports/controllers<{/path}> folder and the controller will be defined like this:

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  // Build on top of reports module
  AngieApplication::useController('reports', REPORTS_FRAMEWORK_INJECT_INTO);

  /**
   * My reports controller implementation
   */
  class MyReportsController extends ReportsController{

    /**
     * Index action
     */
    function index() {
      $this->response->assign(array(
        'projects' => Projects::findActiveByUser($this->logged_user)
      ));
    }
  }<{/code}>

With this code, we have just said to projects model to send us the list of all active projects for a logged in user and assigned the result to the view. Now it's up to the view to display the data that we have loaded.

All views are defined in <{path}>/views<{/path}> subdirectory of a module, grouped by the interface (web interface is default interface). activeCollab is smart and will automatically map index action of <{path}>my_reports<{/path}> controller with index.tpl view in <{path}>/views/default/my_reports<{/path}> directory.

Template that we'll use to display all active projects looks like this:

<{image name="active_projects.png"}>

<{sub slug="register-report"}>Registering a New Report<{/sub}>

Now that we have built a report page, we need to link it up into the <{term}>Reports & Filters<{/term}> section. In order to do that, we need to make sure that our module is listening to an event thrown by activeCollab when it collects list of available reports and filters. 

We are going to do this by adding followiung function to our MyReportsModule.class.php file:

<{code highlight=php}>function defineHandlers() {
  EventsManager::listen('on_homescreen_widget_types', 'on_homescreen_widget_types');
  EventsManager::listen('on_reports_panel', 'on_reports_panel');
}<{/code}>

Handler for this event will be defined in <{path}>on_reports_panel.php<{/path}> file. We will place this file in <{path}>handlers<{/path}> subfolder of our module. Here is the code that we will place in this file:

<{code highlight=php}><?php

  /**
   * on_reports_panel event handler
   */
  
  /**
   * Handle on_reports_panel event
   *
   * @param ReportsPanel $panel
   * @param IUser $user
   */
  function my_reports_handle_on_reports_panel(ReportsPanel &$panel, IUser &$user) {
    if($user->isProjectManager()) {
        $panel->defineRow('my_reports', new ReportsPanelRow(lang('My Reports')));

        $panel->addTo('my_reports', 'my_projects_report', lang('My Projects'), Router::assemble('my_projects_report'), AngieApplication::getImageUrl('module.png', MY_REPORTS_MODULE , AngieApplication::INTERFACE_DEFAULT));
    } // if
  }<{/code}>

Here is the explanation for specific lines of the code that were applyed here:

- <{code}>$panel->defineRow(…)<{/code}> - We have created a new row panel in the Reports & Filters section with this code. First parameter is short name of the section (ID) and second parameter is section's label;
- <{code}>$panel->addTo(…)<{/code}> - With this code we added a widget to my_reports row and named it my_projects. Caption for this particular report is "My Project" and we'll use module.png that we already have in our module folder. Finally, <{code}>AngieApplication::getImageUrl(…)<{/code}> will generate a full URL for you.

When this event handler is properly defined, and we go to Reports & Filters page, we will see our report as one of the availbale options:

<{image name="my_report_option.png"}>

<{note title="Folder Structure"}>At the end of this simple practice, your <{path}>my_repots<{/path}> module structure should look like this:

<{image name="my_reports_final.png"}><{/note}>