*Title: Upgrade Instructions for activeCollab 2 Users
*Slug: upgrade-from-activecollab-2

================================================================

With the release of activeCollab 4 we have dropped support for activeCollab version 2. Since there are a lot of changes in the background it is not possible to upgrade directly from activeCollab v2 to activeCollab v4. 

What you need to do is to go one step at the time: **upgrade to the latest release from v2 > latest release from v3 > switch to v4**.

All the steps necesary to do such upgrade are described here, so please follow all the instructions to upgrade to the latest stabile release.

<{sub slug="to-2-3-10"}>Upgrade to the latest release from version 2 - 2.3.10<{/sub}>

First thing that you should do is to make sure that you are having the latest release from the v2 - 2.3.10. Here's how to upgrade, in case you have any of the previous versions:

<{step nym=1}>**Download 2.3.10 files** from your <a href=https://www.activecollav.com/my-profile>your profile page on www.activeCollab.com</a>. You need to be logged in to see your license info. 2.3.10 files will be available as the <{term}>Other Releases<{/term}>:<{/step}>

<{image name="my_profile_rel.png"}>

<{step num=2}>**Upload these files to your server**. Simply replace existing files with the new ones. Here is the list of files that should be replaced:

- /activecollab (entire folder)
- /config/defaults.php
- /public/assets (entire folder)
- /public/upgrade (entire folder)
- /public/api.php
- /public/captcha.php
- /public/index.php
- /public/restore.php
- /public/thumb.php
- /tasks (entire folder)
- api.php<{/step}>

<{note title="Importnat Notes"}>**Third party modules** - If you have any third party modules installed in your activeCollab, make sure to backup <{path}>/activecollab/application/modules<{/path}> folder up before rewriting it.

**Upgrade from activeCollab v1** - In case you are upgrading from version 1, you should:

- Upload the content of <{path}>/custom<{/path}> folder as well (there are two empty folders in it but it should still be uploaded).
- If you were using a localized version of activeCollab, you should move existing translations from <{path}>/activecollab/localization<{/path}> to <{path}>/custom/localization<{/path}> folder.<{/note}>

<{step num=3}>**Clear activeCollab Cache**. To do this simply delete all <{term}>cch_<{/term}> files from <{path}>/cache<{/path}> and all <{term}>%%<{/term}> files from <{path}>/compile<{/path}> folder.<{/step}>

<{step num=4}>**Run the Upgrade Script**. Visit the <{term}>/public/upgrade<{/term}> link in your setup (for example, if you have activeCollab installed on www.example.com/projects address upgrade script will be located in www.example.com/projects/public/upgrade) and follow the on-screen instructions. 

In this step, activeCollab upgrade utility will upgrade your database to the 2.3.10 latest version.<{/step}>

<{step num=5}>**Remove the Upgrade Script**. When you execute the Upgrade Script, remeber to remove <{path}>/public/upgrade<{/path}> folder from your activeCollab for security reasons.<{/step}>

<{sub slug="to-3-3-21"}>Upgrade to latest release from version 3 - 3.3.21<{/sub}>

<{note title="System Requirements"}>Before you continue with the upgrade to version 3, make sure that your server meets <{page name="system-requirements"}>activeCollab system requirements<{/page}>. Since activeCollab 3 server requirements has become significantly higher than they were with activeCollab 2!<{/note}>

To avoid some common issues that can be caused by the limitations of your PHP environment, here are a few tips on a setup that you should check before we start:

- make sure that the <{code}>memory_limit<{/code}> in the PHP configuration is set at least to 64MB. We highly recommend 128MB, if possible. In case that this value is set below 64MB activeCollab upgrade script will not be executed.
- check the <{code}>max_execution_time value<{/code}> in your PHP configuration. It should be set temporarily to a few minutes. After the upgrade process is finished you can set it to its original value (30 seconds by default, or 60 seconds if you run scheduled tasks via curl and have a lot of POP3 and IMAP mailboxes and/or repositories to check).

These settings will help to make a successful upgrade with minimal downtime.

Now, let's upgrade your activeCollab:

<{step num=1}>**Download 3.3.21** files from your <a href=https://www.activecollav.com/my-profile>your profile page on www.activeCollab.com</a>. Files will be available as the <{term}>Other Releases<{/term}>.<{/step}>

<{step num=2}>**Do a bit of clean up** and do the following:

- backup custom images from <{path}>/public/avatars<{/path}>, <{path}>/public/logos<{/path}> and <{path}>/public/projects_icons<{/path}> folders,
- Remove <{path}>index.php<{/path}> and <{path}>api.php<{/path}> files,
- Delete <{path}>/activecollab<{/path}> folder,
- Delete <{path}>/public<{/path}> folder (nake sure that you have made the backup of the mentioned subfolders first),
- Delete <{path}>/tasks<{/path}> folder,
- Delete <{path}>/config/defaults.php<{/path}> file.<{/step}>

<{step num=3}>**Upload new files** from activeCollab 3.3.21 installation package:

- Upload <{path}>/activecollab<{/path}> folder,
- Upload <{path}>/public<{/path}> folder,
- Upload custom images from your backup back to <{path}>/public/avatars<{/path}>, <{path}>/public/logos<{/path}> and <{path}>/public/projects_icons<{/path}> subfolders,
- Upload <{path}>/tasks<{/path}> folder,
- Upload <{path}>index.php<{/path}> and <{path}>api.php<{/path}> files,
- Upload <{path}>/config/defaults.php<{/path}> and <{path}>/config/version.php<{/path}> file,
- Create empty <{path}>/custom/layouts<{/path}> and <{path}>/custom/modules<{/path}> folders.<{/step}>

<{step num=4}>Now **make sure that following folders are set as writable**:

- <{path}>/public/assets<{/path}>,
- <{path}>/public/avatars<{/path}>,
- <{path}>/public/logos<{/path}>,
- <{path}>/public/notebook_covers<{/path}>,
- <{path}>/public/projects_icons<{/path}>,
- <{path}>/public/template_covers<{/path}>.<{/step}>

<{step num=5}>**Update configuration file**. To do that, you need to open <{path}>/config/config.php<{/path}> file and add following lines, in the block where other options are defined:

<{code inline=false highlight=php}>define('USE_UNPACKED_FILES', true);<{/code}>

and than replace:

<{code highlight=php}>require_once 'defaults.php';
require_once 'license.php';<{/code}>

with:

<{code highlight=php}>require_once dirname(__FILE__) . '/version.php';
require_once dirname(__FILE__) . '/license.php';
require_once dirname(__FILE__) . '/defaults.php';<{/code}>

After these changes are made, your configuration file should be looking something like this:

<{code highlight=php}><?php
  define('ROOT', '…'); 
  define('PUBLIC_FOLDER_NAME', 'public'); 
  define('DB_HOST', '…'); 
  define('DB_USER', '…'); 
  define('DB_PASS', '…'); 
  define('DB_NAME', '…'); 
  define('DB_CAN_TRANSACT', true); 
  define('TABLE_PREFIX', 'acx_'); 
  define('ROOT_URL', '…'); 
  define('PATH_INFO_THROUGH_QUERY_STRING', true); 
  define('FORCE_QUERY_STRING', true); 
  define('LOCALIZATION_ENABLED', false); 
  define('ADMIN_EMAIL', '…'); 
  define('DEBUG', 1); 
  define('API_STATUS', 1); 
  define('PROTECT_SCHEDULED_TASKS', true); 
  define('DB_CHARSET', 'utf8'); 

  // Lines bellow are new to activeCollab 3  
  define('USE_UNPACKED_FILES', true);

  require_once dirname(__FILE__) . '/version.php';
  require_once dirname(__FILE__) . '/license.php';
  require_once dirname(__FILE__) . '/defaults.php';<{/code}><{/step}>

  That should cover all the dirty work. From this point, everything is automated. 

  <{step num=6}>**Run the upgrade script**. To do that visit <{path}>/public/upgrade/index.php<{/path}> part of your activeCollab with your web browser, log in with your administrator credentials and the system will upgrade your database.<{/step}>

<{step num=7}>In case you have been using translation you should remove <{path}>/custom/localization<{/path}> folder. It is no longer needed because activeCollab 3 uses database to manage and store translations.<{/step}>

<{note title="Clean URL-s"}>If you have been using clean URL-s tweak in activeCollab 2, don't forget to <{page name="clean-url"}>check out this article<{/page}> to learn how to update this tweak to make it compatible with your new activeCollab. Note that this tweak may break your activeCollab unless you upgrade the system!<{/note}>

<{step num=8}>**Verification**. To confirm that your activeCollab is working, please try to logging in. If you see log in screen, but you can't log in with credentials that are known to work, please clean all .php files from <{path}>/cache<{/path}> folder.<{/step}>

<{sub slug="to-version-4"}>Upgrade to latest release from version 4<{/sub}>

Finally, you can use the auto-upgrade tool to switch to the version 4 automaytically.

To find out more about the upgrade to version 4, please read <{page name="upgrade"}>this article.<{/page}>	
