*Title: Support and Upgrade Subscription
*Slug: support-and-upgrade-subscription

================================================================

<{term}>Support and Upgrade Subscription<{/term}> is an additional service provided by A51 d.o.o. that enables you to have a yearly package of:

- **Customer Support**. Our dedicated support team will reply to all support and sales inquires within one business day. Our dedicated support team will be working on your support requests, so you can rest assured that you will always receive the best possible solution to your problem and exemplary customer service.
- **Access to all activeCollab releases for one year**, whether they are major or minor releases. Full access to all updates within a branch is provided even after your Upgrade and Support package expires.

When you purchase activeCollab, you will receive a one-year Support and Upgrade Subscription free of charge. When the first year expires, you can decide to continue using activeCollab without upgrades and support or to renew your Subscription for another year. **Renewal of Support and Upgrade Subscriptions is completely optional**.

<{sub slug="renewal"}>Support and Upgrade Subscription Renewal<{/sub}>

To renew your Support and Upgrade Subscription you need to log in to your <a href="activecollab.com/my-profile">www.activeCollab.com account</a> that you used to purchase your activeCollab license. On this page you will see all details about your activeCollab license(s), including when your Support and Upgrade Subscription(s) expire(s).

<{image name="my-profile.png"}>

To renew your Support and Upgrade Subscription for another year, click the <{term}>Renew<{/term}> option next to the expiration date and complete the purchase form that follows. The current price of the service activeCollab Corporate is $199.

<{sub slug="branches"}>Branches<{/sub}>

**A branch is set of related releases**. <{term}>Branches<{/term}> are easily recognized based on a version number: the first and second number (the one after the first dot) mark the branch.

Branches are important because you get access to all versions released inside a branch even if you don't have a valid <{term}>Support and Upgrade Subscription<{/term}> at the time the branch is released. For example, if you have access to the 4.1 branch and your Support and Upgrade Subscription expires, you will still have access to all features released in that branch, including those that are released after your Subscription expires: 4.1.1, 4.1.4, 4.1.6, etc.

Thanks to this rule, you will always have access to all bug fixes and security releases for your branch and you will have access to the most stable version of activeCollab available.