*Title: Branding Removal
*Slug: branding-removal

================================================================

<{note title="Branding Removal on a Cloud Account"}>This type of license **is not supported for Cloud accounts**. Only owners of the self-hosted licenses can use this type of licensing and remove our branding from their setup.<{/note}>

In activeCollab, you will see a small "activeCollab Powered" graphic at the bottom right corner of the page:

<{image name="ac-powered-zoom.png"}>

The <{page name="self-hosted-license-agreement"}>activeCollab Self-hosted License Agreement<{/page}> prohibits removal of this graphic from the footer, unless you have the <{term}>Branding Removal license<{/term}>. This license will enable you to "hide" the activeCollab logo from all pages that are available to your <{term}>Client<{/term}> users. The only exception is the Admin area where the "activeCollab powered" logo will always be displayed.

<{note title="Warning"}>Removal of the "activeCollab powered" graphic from the footer of activeCollab pages without a Branding Removal license will result in activeCollab license termination and will be treated as a A51 d.o.o. copyright violation.<{/note}>

<{sub slug="what-is-not-branding-removal"}>What is and what is NOT Branding Removal License?<{/sub}>

Here are a few facts that will help you understand what Branding Removal license is:

- great added value if you don't want your customers to know what project management system exactly are you using.
- a lifetime license, meaning that purchased once you can use it as long as you wish. No additional fees or annual renewals are required.

On the other hand, Branding Removal license **is not a White Label** license and all conditions from activeCollab self-hosted License Agreement still apply. This means that you can not:

- brand the product under your name and / or claim that activeCollab is your product;
- use activeCollab as a foundation for new product or service;
- redistribute the system (in the form of an installable script or as a service). 

This license is not giving you a permission to re-brand the system and to sell it as your own product.

<{note title="Can I offer activeCollab to my Customers?"}>You can offer activeCollab to your customers, and you can charge for **value added services** only (such as installation, customization, localization, maintenance, training etc.), not for the software itself. Your customers need to be aware that they are using activeCollab and that they are paying you only for the additional services services.<{/note}>

<{sub slug="purchasing"}>Purchasing Brand Removal License<{/sub}>

You can purchase Branding rRemoval license from you <a href="http://www.activecollab.com/my-profile">profile page</a> on our website. All the details about your license are stored here, including the option to purchase some additional services or licenses. 

The price of the Branding Removal license is $199.

<{sub slug="installation"}>How to Install Branding Removal License?<{/sub}>

Once you have purchased the Branding Removal License, go to the <{term}>Administration Panel<{/term}> of your activeCollab and click on the <{option}>Refresh button<{/option}>. After the version and license information is refreshed, you should see that the Branding Removal is applied. Refresh the page (by pressing <{term}>Ctrl + R<{/term}> or <{term}>Cmd + R<{/term}>) and confirm that the "activeCollab Powered" graphic has been removed from the bottom right corner of the interface.

In case of any problems, please get in touch with our support team.

<{note title="Can I place my Company logo in place of the activeCollab branding?"}>Please note that you cannot place your company logo in the place of the "activeCollab Powered" logo. This logo is simply displayed, or not, if you are the Branding Removal license owner.<{/note}>